# global_armed_conflict_care_approach
This repository contains the original data, copies of the Google Colaboratory notebooks used to analyze the data, data visualizations, and the research query background information for the global armed conflict analysis.

# The CARE Approach: Paving the Path to International Security and Peace

## Background
During the fiscal year 1 July 2019 to 30 June 2020, the United Nations committed over $6.518 billion to sustaining [UN Peacekeeping operations](https://peacekeeping.un.org/en/what-is-peacekeeping), a multilaternal initiative which helps host countries engaged in military conflict "navigate the difficult path from conflict to peace" through a range of services including burden sharing, civilian protection, election and political process reform, and the promotion of human rights in pursuit of an overarching mandate to aid in restoring the rule of law. Despite these efforts, military spending has continued to soar globally, with total global military expenditure rising to [$1.981 trillion](https://www.sipri.org/media/press-release/2021/world-military-spending-rises-almost-2-trillion-2020) last year amid a 4.4% decline in global gross domestic product, largely attributable to the COVID-19 pandemic.

Tasked with maintaining international peace and security, the United Nations must craft an efficient, calculated, and informed strategy with respect to deploying funds in the face of finite resources and high stakes. What insights into a nation's behavior can international policymakers and peacekeeping agencies gain from  its level of military spending? What is the relationship between military expenditure per capita and the number of military engagements a nation is involved in? What other factors correlate with the incidence of military conflicts, and how can we use them to develop a roadmap to help UN leaders refine their operations and strategy? To begin exploring answers to these questions, we'll take a look at [open data](https://www.sipri.org/databases/milex) from [The Stockholm International Peace Research Institute](https://www.sipri.org) (SIPRI) containing military expenditures per capita figures for over 160 countries from 1988-2020.

## Abstract
Every minute, UN Peacekeeping operations deploy over $12,000 in wide-ranging efforts to protect civilians, prevent conflicts, and promote human rights in war-torn nations around the globe. Yet despite the scope and scale of these efforts, global military expenditure has continued to soar and the number of armed conflicts has trended markedly upward since 1946. We understand the urgency of UN Peacekeeping’s mission and the need to craft an efficient, calculated, and informed solution to allocating funds in the face of high stakes and limited resources. Compiling research across several reputable databases, the CARE (Cultural Understanding, Worldwide Agreement, Sharing Resources, and Economic Assistance) approach outlines our four-step roadmap to optimizing the path to international security and peace. By delivering critical resources to developing nations, promoting tolerance and cultural awareness, encouraging the formation of new multilateral agreements to foster greater resource sharing, and drafting an international compact in support of a global standard of governance, we believe that we can expedite the path to worldwide security and peace, saving the UN billions of dollars annually and mitigating the human cost of war along the way. 

## Additional data sources
- [World Bank](https://data.worldbank.org/)
- [Uppsala Conflict Data Program](https://ucdp.uu.se/downloads/index.html#battlerelated)
